Major refactor of layout chapter (#81)
pavpanchekha/emberfox: book/layout.md

node in the layout tree. Like our `Element` class, layout objects form
a tree, so they have a list of `children` and a `parent`. We'll also
have a `node` field for the HTML element the layout object corresponds
to. Finally, let's add a field for the layout object's previous
sibling. We'll need it to compute sizes and positions.

``` {.python}
class BlockLayout:
    def __init__(self, node, parent, previous):
        self.node = node
        self.parent = parent
        self.previous = previous
        self.children = []
```

Each layout object also needs a size and position, which we'll store
in `width`, `height`, `x`, and `y` fields. But let's leave that for
later. The first job for `BlockLayout` is creating the layout tree
itself.

We'll do that in a new `layout` method, looping over each child _node_
and creating a new child _layout object_ for it.

``` {.python}
class BlockLayout:
    def layout(self):
        previous = None
        for child in self.node.children:
            next = BlockLayout(child, self, previous)
            self.children.append(next)
            previous = next
```

The difference between _nodes_ and _layout objects_ can get confusing

> here. Each `child` comes from `node.children`, so it is a HTML node.

Reviewer: Your comments here might be creating as much confusion as they aim to solve, e.g. because self.children actually is layout objects whereas self.node.children are nodes. I was confused myself for about 30 seconds. How about instead putting\ some comments in the code? Something like:

def layout(self); 
  previous = None
  for child in self.node.children:
    // Note: child is a node, not a layout object! Likewise self.node.children is an array of nodes
    next = BlockLayout(...)
    self.children.append(next)
    previous = next

Reviewer: WDYT of my comments?

build the whole tree recursively:

``` {.python}
def layout(self):
    # ...
    for child in self.children:
        child.layout()
```

We'll discuss how the recursion will bottom out in just a moment, but
let's first ask how it starts. Inconveniently, `BlockLayout` requires
a parent node, so we need another kind of layout object at the
root.[^or-none] I think of that root as the document itself, so let's
call it `DocumentLayout`:

[^or-none]: You couldn't just use `None` for the parent, because the
root layout object also computes its size and position differently, as
we'll see later this chapter.

``` {.python}
class DocumentLayout:
    def __init__(self, node):
        self.node = node
        self.parent = None
        self.children = []

    def layout(self):
        child = BlockLayout(self.node, self, None)
        self.children.append(child)
        child.layout()
```

So we're now building a layout tree with one layout object per HTML
node, with an extra layout object at the root. But before we move on
to computing sizes and positions, we have to face an important truth:
different HTML elements are laid out differently. They need different

> kinds of layout objects.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
kinds of layout objects!
```

        self.children = []
```

In the new `layout` method, replace the `tree` argument with the
`node` field:

``` {.python}
class InlineLayout:
    def layout(self):
        # ...
        self.cursor_x = self.x
        self.cursor_y = self.y
        self.line = []
        self.recurse(self.node)
        self.flush()
```

I've also initialized `cursor_x` and `cursor_y` from `x` and `y`

> instead of `HSTEP` and `XSTEP`. Make that changes, and make a similar

Reviewer: ```suggestion
instead of `HSTEP` and `XSTEP`. Make those changes, and similar
```

> change inside the `flush` method too:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
changes inside the `flush` method too:
```

``` {.python}
class InlineLayout:
    def flush(self):
        # ...
        self.cursor_x = self.x
        # ...
```

> Inline layout object aren't going to have any children [for

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Inline layout objects aren't going to have any children [for
```

now](chrome.md), so we don't need any code for that in `layout`. And

> let's again leave actually computing `x` and `y` and `width` and

Reviewer: ```suggestion
just as with block layout, let's leave actually computing `x` and `y` and `width` and
```

]
```

We'll use `BlockLayout` for elements with children from that list, and
`InlineLayout` otherwise. Put that logic in a new `layout_mode`
function:

``` {.python}
def layout_mode(node):
    if isinstance(node, Text):
        return "inline"
    elif node.children:
        for child in node.children:
            if child.tag in BLOCK_ELEMENTS:
                return "block"
        return "inline"
    else:
        return "block"
```

> The cases make sure text nodes get inline layout while empty elements

Reviewer: Not sure if this sentence is understandable. Is it necessary either? Maybe remove?

Reviewer: ditto

get block layout. Now we can call `layout_mode` to determine which
layout mode to use for each element:

``` {.python}
class BlockLayout:
    def layout(self):
        previous = None
        for child in self.node.children:
            if layout_mode(child) == "inline":

>                 next = InlineLayout(child, self, previous)

Reviewer: Is this fixing a bug in the old code?

Author: No—it's just clarifying. Before you create a new layout object by referring to the previous node, then store the new node in the `previous` variable. Now, you store it in a new `next` variable which is later saved into `previous`.

But note that the height of a block layout depends on the height of
its *children*. So, it must be computed after recursing, after the
heights of its children are computed. Getting this dependency order

> right is crucial: get it wrong, some layout object will try to read a

Reviewer: ```suggestion
right is crucial: get it wrong, and some layout object will try to read a
```

```

Check it out: your browser is now using fancy tree-based layout! I
recommend pausing to test and debug. Tree-based layout is powerful but
complex, and we're about to add more features. Stable foundations make
for comfortable houses.

Backgrounds
===========

> The layout tree is the central[^for-what] but one simple and visually

Reviewer: Needs grammar fixing.

Reviewer: Or rephrasing..

        )
```

> By default `create_rectangle` draws a one-pixel black border, which

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default, `create_rectangle` draws a one-pixel black border, which
```

        self.max_y = self.document.height - HEIGHT
```

When the user scrolls down, don't let them scroll past the bottom of
the page:

``` {.python}
def scrolldown(self, e):
    self.scroll = min(self.scroll + SCROLL_STEP, self.max_y)
    self.render()
```

> Thank you tree-based layout! In fact, as we'll see in the next two

Reviewer: Why thank you? Is there a convenient feature you're referring to?

If, not, perhaps "Well that's tree-based layout!"
